# Data Preprocessing Files Overview

1.  **`aggregate_points.ipynb`:**

    - Extracts aggregate statistics of all players from the **CricketStats** library for each cricket format (T20, ODI, Test).
    - Statistics are extracted for the period from **2010-01-01** to **2024-06-30**.

2.  **`Data_extracter.ipynb`:**

    - Retrieves detailed CSV data for each **MatchID** and individual player across all formats (T20, ODI, Test) from the **CricketStats** library.
    - Adjustments were made to the open-source **CricketStats** library to include additional features such as:
      - Maiden Overs
      - Fours
      - Sixes
      - Bowled
      - LBW

3.  **`Match_level_players.ipynb`:**

    - Generates team squad data in two formats:
      1.  **MatchID-wise Squads:** For model user interface (UI).
      2.  **Date-wise Hierarchical Squads:** For frontend use, which also includes an additional squad for both teams. This additional squad comprises players who played in the last 10 matches of the same format and same gender identity for the respective teams.

4.  **`Json_Formatter.ipynb`:**

    - Converts raw data from **CricketStats** into a processable JSON format with a hierarchy:

      ```
      {
        "Player1": {
          "MatchID1": {
            "stat1": ...,
            "stat2": ...,
            ...
          },
          ...
        },
        ...
      }

      ```

    - For Test matches, where players may have up to 2 batting and bowling innings, the formatter computes aggregate stats such as:
      - **Batting Strike Rate** across all batting innings.
      - **Bowling Average** across all bowling innings.
    - Performs one-hot encoding for the **"How Out"** feature.
    - Adds new statistics such as:
      - **Innings-wise Runs**
      - **Innings-wise Wickets**\
        These are crucial for calculating a player's batting and bowling fantasy points.

5.  **`testing.ipynb`:**

    - Calculates fantasy points for each player's performance in every match using the interim JSON data generated by the **Json_Formatter**.
